SOLID principles

S -> Single Responsibility
O -> Open-Closed
L -> Liskov Substitution
I -> Interface Segregation
D -> Dependency Inversion

Single Responsibility:
It means that a piece of code should have only one responsibility
For e.g
The order class shouldn't have to deal with payment processing. So we create a new class for payment processing

Open-Close:
Program must be open for new functionalities but closed for modifications
Use of class and subclass
use Abstract class and abstract method

Liskov principle:
Functions that use pointers or references to base classes must be able to use objects of derived classes without knowing it.
The child class must not violate its base class characteristics. It must be capable with it. We can say it's same as subtyping.
Example:
All of the methods take X and Y coordinates as parameters to locate the tile position in the two-dimensional array of Tiles. This will allow a game developer to manage units in the board during the course of the game.

The book goes on to change the requirements to say that the game frame work must also support 3D game boards to accommodate games that have flight. So a ThreeDBoard class is introduced that extends Board.

At first glance this seems like a good decision. Board provides both the Height and Width properties and ThreeDBoard provides the Z axis.

Where it breaks down is when you look at all the other members inherited from Board. The methods for AddUnit, GetTile, GetUnits and so on, all take both X and Y parameters in the Board class but the ThreeDBoard needs a Z parameter as well.

So you must implement those methods again with a Z parameter. The Z parameter has no context to the Board class and the inherited methods from the Board class lose their meaning. A unit of code attempting to use the ThreeDBoard class as its base class Board would be very out of luck.

Maybe we should find another approach. Instead of extending Board, ThreeDBoard should be composed of Board objects. One Board object per unit of the Z axis.

This allows us to use good object oriented principles like encapsulation and reuse and doesn’t violate LSP.

Interface Segregation:
Several specific interfaces than one general interface
Example:
Payment processor Abstract class has pay method
we want to implement 2FA for debit and paypal only not credit
but if we add 2fa method in payemnt processor we'll have to override it in credit class as well that will raise and exception
we dont want this to happen
So what we can do is create a new class for payment2fa that inherits from paymentProcessor and has abstract method of 2fa
We can then inherit from the payment2fa class in debit and paypal and use the original class of paymentProcessor for credit class

Dependency Inversion:
Our class should depend upon abstract classes and not concrete classes
